Istio sidecar version troubleshooting docs (#10183)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/service-mesh/10-06-sidecar-version.md

---
title: Istio sidecar version after Kyma upgrade
type: Troubleshooting
---

> Kyma has sidecar injection enabled by default - a sidecar is injected to every Deployment in a cluster, without the need to add any labels. For more information, read [this document](#details-sidecar-proxy-injection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kyma has sidecar injection enabled by default - a sidecar is injected to every Pod in a cluster, without the need to add any labels. For more information, read [this document](#details-sidecar-proxy-injection).
```

The sidecar version in Pods must match the installed Istio version, otherwise mesh connectivity may be broken.
This is not an issue when installing Kyma, but it may be a problem during upgrades. When Kyma is upgraded to a new version along with a new Istio version, existing sidecars injected into Pods remain in an original version.
Kyma contains an `istio-proxy-reset` job, that performs a rollout for most common workload types like deployments, daemonsets, etc. The job ensures all Kyma components are properly updated.
Certain kinds of user-defined workloads can't be rolled out automatically, for example, a standalone Pod without any backing management mechanism (like ReplicaSet or a Job).
Such user-defined workloads (that are not part of Kyma) must be manually restarted to work correctly with the updated Istio version.

To find if any pods/workloads require a manual restart, you can:

> * Get the list of Pods with outdated sidecar version. You can get the Istio version for a Kyma release from the Istio chart version located in `resources/Istio/Chart.yaml` file. The returned list is in `name/namespace` format, empty output means no Pods require migration. Use the following command:

Reviewer 2: Maybe you could provide a command for getting Istio version? For example from istiod deployment and export it.

Author: Added

    ```bash

>     EXPECTED_ISTIO_PROXY_IMAGE="1.7.4-distroless" #Valid for Kyma: 1.17.x, 1.18.x

Reviewer 3: would it be better to keep it general?
EXPECTED_ISTIO_PROXY_IMAGE="{KYMA_ISTIO_VERSION}"

Author: I Added a section on getting KYMA_ISTIO_VERSION using copy-paste command in two ways: either from a cluster (istiod deployment) or from Kyma sources (Istio chart version)

    COMMON_ISTIO_PROXY_IMAGE_PREFIX="eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/external/istio/proxyv2"
    kubectl get pods -A -o json | jq -rc '.items | .[] | select(.spec.containers[].image | startswith("'"${COMMON_ISTIO_PROXY_IMAGE_PREFIX}"'") and (endswith("'"${EXPECTED_ISTIO_PROXY_IMAGE}"'") | not))  | "\(.metadata.name)/\(.metadata.namespace)"'
    ```

* Run the `istio-proxy-reset` script in dry-run mode. Execute the command from within the directory with checked-out Kyma sources. You can get the Istio version for the Kyma release from the Istio chart version located in `resources/Istio/Chart.yaml` file. The output contains information about objects (Pods, Deployments, etc.) that require rollout.

    ```bash

>     EXPECTED_ISTIO_PROXY_IMAGE="1.7.4-distroless" #Valid for Kyma: 1.17.x, 1.18.x

Reviewer 3: same as my comment above

Author: addressed

---

> title: Istio sidecar version after Kyma upgrade

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: Incompatible Istio sidecar version after Kyma upgrade
```

type: Troubleshooting
---

Kyma has sidecar injection enabled by default - a sidecar is injected to every Pod in a cluster, without the need to add any labels. For more information, read [this document](#details-sidecar-proxy-injection).

> The sidecar version in Pods must match the installed Istio version, otherwise mesh connectivity may be broken.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The sidecar version in Pods must match the installed Istio version. Otherwise, mesh connectivity may be broken.
```

> This is not an issue when installing Kyma, but it may be a problem during upgrades. When Kyma is upgraded to a new version along with a new Istio version, existing sidecars injected into Pods remain in an original version.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This issue may appear during Kyma upgrade. When Kyma is upgraded to a new version along with a new Istio version, existing sidecars injected into Pods remain in an original version.
```

> Kyma contains an `istio-proxy-reset` job, that performs a rollout for most common workload types like deployments, daemonsets, etc. The job ensures all Kyma components are properly updated.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Kyma contains the `istio-proxy-reset` job that performs a rollout for most common workload types, such as Deployments, DaemonSets, etc. The job ensures all Kyma components are properly updated.
```

> Some user-defined workloads can't be rolled out automatically. This applies, for example, to a standalone Pod without any backing management mechanism, such as ReplicaSet or a Job.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However, some user-defined workloads can't be rolled out automatically. This applies, for example, to a standalone Pod without any backing management mechanism, such as a ReplicaSet or a Job.
```

Such user-defined workloads (that are not part of Kyma) must be manually restarted to work correctly with the updated Istio version.

> To find if any pods/workloads require a manual restart please follow the steps:

Author: ```suggestion
To find if any Pods or workloads require a manual restart please follow the steps:
```

1) Get the installed Istio version using either method:

>     * From istiod deployment

Author: ```suggestion
    * From istiod deployment in a running cluster:
```

        ```bash
        export KYMA_ISTIO_VERSION=$(kubectl get deployment istiod -n istio-system -o json | jq '.spec.template.spec.containers | .[].image' | sed 's/[^:"]*[:]//' | sed 's/["]//g')
        ```

>     * From Kyma sources:

Author: ```suggestion
    * From Kyma sources - execute from within directory with Kyma sources:
```

        ```bash
        export KYMA_ISTIO_VERSION=$(cat resources/istio/Chart.yaml | grep version | sed 's/[^:]*[:]//' | sed 's/ //g')
        ```

2) Get the list of objects which require rollout, using any method:

>     * Find all Pods with outdated sidecars. The returned list is in `name/namespace` format, empty output means no Pods require migration.

Author: ```suggestion
    * Find all Pods with outdated sidecars. The returned list is in `name/namespace` format, empty output means no Pods require migration. Execute:
```

        ```bash
        COMMON_ISTIO_PROXY_IMAGE_PREFIX="eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/external/istio/proxyv2"
        kubectl get pods -A -o json | jq -rc '.items | .[] | select(.spec.containers[].image | startswith("'"${COMMON_ISTIO_PROXY_IMAGE_PREFIX}"'") and (endswith("'"${KYMA_ISTIO_VERSION}"'") | not))  | "\(.metadata.name)/\(.metadata.namespace)"'
        ```

>     * Run the `istio-proxy-reset` script in dry-run mode. Execute the command from within the directory with checked-out Kyma sources. The output contains information about objects (Pods, Deployments, etc.) that require rollout.

Author: ```suggestion
    * Run the `istio-proxy-reset` script in dry-run mode. The output contains information about objects (Pods, Deployments, etc.) that require rollout. Execute the command from within the directory with checked-out Kyma sources:
```
